This is your senator, Estes Keifoper, who is one of the
most living states around.
Here he appears with the long term
Senator Kefoffer has received one claim for his work in a crime investigations and to
trust hearings and the present investigations into the drug industry.
He is also vitally concerned with matters of great local interests such as TBA, the
Reclamation Projects Farm Legislation, the high cost of living and numerous other problems
that affect your everyday life.
Senator Kefoffer has served in Congress since 1939 and has been in the Senate for 12 years.
As your personal representative and friend, the Senator would like to meet you.
So let's join the family in their Washington home.
Senator Kefoffer.
My friends, I certainly would like to be with you and personal on this occasion.
But of course I have a lot of places to be in Tennessee.
I do hope that during the summer I can have an opportunity of visiting with you personally
and talking with as many of you as possible.
On this occasion I do want you to meet again my family, my wife Nancy, whom all of you know.
Nancy, you want to say something to the...
Yes, I'm glad to be with you too.
I actually want to get down to Tennessee as much as I can this summer and be with you in
the next few months.
And then our oldest daughter cannot be with us on this occasion because she's struggling
hard to try to get by her freshman year at Vanderbilt.
But Nancy, I think you got a picture of Linda.
You didn't see that when it just came in the mail the other day.
Well, I'm anxious to see it and I know that Linda will be with us this summer a great
deal too.
And here's my great big boy David.
David Estes, Kefoffer.
David, how are you getting along?
Fine.
At school we just had a fair and I want to cat it.
Oh, school at the fair.
Well, I'll be able to get.
That made two cats we had.
Why'd you do that little bit of kitten?
Well, I had to give it away.
We already had two dogs in one cat.
You mean you drew a number in one little kitten?
Yes.
I used a cute little kitten I saw him but I saw to agree with you that one around the
house may be enough.
And Diane, this is our daughter Diane.
She's not 12 years old and she goes to school.
What are you going to do this summer Diane?
Well, I'm planning to go down to Tennessee after camp and help my sister around the house.
Want to help Linda run our little house on lookout mountain?
Well, I hope that we just got our house finished this last summer.
It's a, we hope that as many of you as possible may come and visit us sometime when we're
there.
I believe you have a big job of feeding the dogs in the cat most of the time, don't you?
Diane.
Supposed to.
Well, Gail, how are you getting along, sweetie?
Gail is nine years old.
And are you going to come down and travel around with us sometime this summer?
Yeah, well, I got a camp first.
Uh-huh.
And then I remember four years ago you went several places with Nancy and me when we were
in our campaign and what you do in there when you went around.
That guy on your buttons?
Put buttons on people.
I remember you put a button on, you tried to give a fellow a button, he wouldn't take
one and what you do then.
But I put it on the back of his cat.
Well, that's a, you were so little and you had to reach up and put it on the back of his
coat, but I guess this time you can do it a whole lot better.
Well, David, what are you going to do when you got through?
First, where are you going to go to college if you pass your grades and everything?
Well, I'd like to go to the University of Tennessee because I believe that that has one
of the best education for agriculture.
You mean you're going to be a farmer?
You're going to be a farmer?
Down at Madisonville maybe one of these days.
Why don't you be a good farmer because you like to, you're always willing to mow the
yard which I don't do very often.
When I die on New York, like your mother, you're somewhat of an artist, what is it that you
like to draw?
Well, I like to paint horses and what's about them.
Well, I gave, we've been talking a whole lot about how dying paints horses and then we
did mention that you went down to the studio with Mummy once in a while and we might have
proud of something happened about your paintings over there.
What was that?
Well, I saw two of my paintings and I got $2.
Oh, you did?
That was wonderful.
I don't think a little girl ever has been so excited when somebody paid her $10 for a painting.
That's $10 for a two-painting.
$10 for two-painting?
Yeah, that's right.
$5 feet.
She loves to paint.
Like, she owes a model, isn't she?
You know.
You just like to paint?
No, she just paints like that.
Well, we have always have two good dogs and then Dan, you want to tell us about, tell
our friends about our present dogs?
Well, one's a Cocker Spaniel and his name's Jojo.
We've had Jojo a long time.
He's a pretty dog.
Then what's the new one?
It's an Irish setter and her name's Amber.
Well, they're certain they're their fine dogs.
I think maybe they were in the picture here a little while ago.
I know that every morning, when the mailman comes, you're a great big stack of mail for you.
Down in the office, we got lots of mail from the people in Tennessee.
You got a lot of mail.
What kind of mail do you get and how do you answer it?
Well, I get a lot of mail from the women in ten throughout the state.
They're problems just about the same as ours are here.
I keep up quite a correspondence, as you know, and discuss our mutual problems of our children
and our food and everything else.
I know a lot of them write you about education and about how cost of living or about, in fact,
they might be going to come to Washington.
Of course, you know we have many visitors from the state, and we are constantly seeing people from Tennessee.
Just last week, we had over 20 women at the Democratic Convention here.
So that's a grand way to keep in touch with what's going on at home.
I think the good people we are visiting, whether people, particularly the women,
might be interested in a typical day of yours in Washington, Nancy,
what you do and what you have to do and what your activities are.
Well, of course, once a week, the Senate late is meat, and that's a busy and amusing day.
We get into uniform and go down to one of the rooms in the Senate and roll bandages and prepare squares and everything for the Red Cross.
And do a lot of talking to us.
We do a lot of gossiping and exchange news about our various sections of the country,
and we take our lunch in a little paper bag and we get cup of coffee and it's very informal.
David, you're going to go out and campaign somewhere this summer?
Yes, I hope to.
And, uh, well, you know a lot of boys in Tennessee because you've been over to High Lake County.
I think you're one of the oldest campers over there, aren't you?
Yes, sir.
And, uh, what are you and Linda going to do when you got down to the house in Tennessee, Diane?
Well, I guess mostly clean it up.
And more of the grass?
Yes.
Well, Linda's big enough to mold the grass, isn't she?
Well, uh...
We're plodding to do.
I know that Nancy has about the same problem that most all...
Uh, mothers doing connection with education, I have to be aware of a great deal, down at the office.
And, um, Nancy has the job of taking the kids around to the girl scouts and to the brownies and to the boy scouts.
It's the arithmetic homework.
I wish you'd stay home more than that to help with that.
When I'm helping Gayle with her arithmetic, see?
David and Diane are a jump ahead, so I come out pretty easily.
And then when I have to help David, sometimes over my head.
I remember you sent me a book on a 4-H club.
Can I have been reading it?
Yeah, well, um...
I'm glad David is, wants to be a farmer because, um, we need more farmers, but they've been having many hard times.
You know, David, but you'll be a good one, won't you?
I don't know if I'll be able to actually be one, but he's never wanted to be anything else.
Well, I always wanted to be a lawyer. I didn't know I'd ever be a politician when I...
You never can tell.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, certainly has been good to visit with you on this occasion, and I wish that our daughter Linda could...
be with us as well as David and Diane and Gayle, and...
but we'll all be around this summer and try to see as many of you as possible.
Now that you have had a visit with my family, I would like to spend a few minutes discussing some of the more pressing domestic issues, facing our state and our nation,
and letting you know where I stand on them.
Over the long haul, one of the most serious unsolved problems is high prices.
We have been in an inflationary spiral for years, and prices have been going up almost constantly.
If there is one group which does not need to be reminded of this fact, it is the Housewives.
It is no consolation to them to be told that inflation has been slowed down.
Prices still inch up almost every month, and the net result over the years is indeed shocking.
The causes of our inflationary spiral are very complex, and I won't try to oversimplify the problem.
But one of the major causes is what the economist called administered prices.
We layman normally think of them as collusive prices.
What it amounts to is that a particular industry may be monopolized by a few huge companies,
which then rigged the prices to eliminate competition and to assure extra high profits.
Such practices could not be more contrary to the basic concepts underlying our free enterprise system.
I have held a number of hearings on monopolies in some of our industries,
where competition has been almost completely eliminated.
The steel industry and the electrical industry are excellent examples.
More recently we held a long series of hearings to show why the cost of drugs to the drug is so excessive,
and why the profits in the drug manufacturing industry are equally excessive.
And I shall continue to press for legislation which will restore competition to those many industries which are now almost completely monopolized by a few huge firms.
And I think that fiscal irresponsibility is also something against which we must always be on guard,
because it has something to do with inflation too.
The Congress can and does make substantial savings.
We made cuts in the proposed budget at places where we felt that it could be done,
commensurate with the national security and the general welfare of the country.
For many years I was a member of the Armed Services Committee of the Senate,
and we were able to eliminate to make many savings by eliminating many of the overlapping activities in our military reorganization bill.
Activities and waste which has been so common in the Pentagon.
Another problem which is crucial and complex is the farm situation.
This problem gets worse and worse each year.
One of the favorite indoor sports throughout the country these days seems to be a game called Beat Ezra Tath Benson,
and he seems to be fair game for Democrats and Republicans alike.
Well I think Mr. Benson has made a bad mess out of the farm situation,
but whipping him will not solve the problems.
There are many people who do not really understand how bad things are with the average farmer.
Very few non-farmers, for example, know that since 1951, the price of corn per bushel has dropped from 166 to 105 per bushel.
And this is a 37% decrease.
All that cotton seed is down 43%.
All that beef cattle are down 22%.
All that millions of people have been leaving the farms and going into the already crowded cities.
I could go on and on, but more figures would only underline the conclusion that the farmers are really in very bad straits.
And this is particularly true of the small family farmer.
Well I've spent a good part of my 22 years in Congress fighting for the survival of the small farmer.
And we must find ways to protect the income of the small family-sized farmer and also find a way to assure that all farmers get their fair share of the farm dollar.
At the same time we must protect the taxpayer and the consumer.
I do not pretend that this will be easy, but I do contend that it can be done.
One thing that I have urged is the establishment of a Department of Consumers and the Federal Government.
We have Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and of Labor, but we have no Department to look after the interest of the consumers.
And every American is a consumer.
And a Department to look after our interest as consumers is long overdue.
In my estimation, the third most serious domestic problem in the country today,
is that of providing first-rate public schools to all of our children.
Despite a massive effort on the part of states and local communities in building schools since World War II,
there is still a shortage of 140,000 classrooms throughout the country.
There is also a shortage of 195,000 teachers.
Everyone knows the old adage about a picture being worth a thousand words.
Here is a recent cartoon by the famous Bill Maudlin, which appeared in the Harold Rebun and which proves this point very neatly.
The cartoon says, I'm not playing hooky, I just fell out.
These shortages do not result from any lack of foresight or initiative on the part of local authorities.
They are dear rather to the fact that our population is expanding at an extremely high rate,
and the fact that our local tax resources are stretched almost to the breaking point.
It is for this reason that I believe that federal aid for education is vital.
This aid can be given without any danger of federal control.
The legislation has specific prohibitions on this point,
and it can be given in such a way that states decide how much of the aid is to be spent for school construction
and how much for supplementing teacher salaries.
Federal aid would be a particular assistance to states like Tennessee, whose average income is below the national average.
For every dollar paid in federal taxes paid by Tennesseans, we would get back more than $2 in federal aid,
and these are good national programs too.
I have here a chart which was recently published by the Tennessee Municipal Association.
It says, federal grants in aid return $2.22 to Tennessee for every $1 in federal taxes.
It is a tremendous bargain for state with only two-thirds US average.
Well, let's take for example here, here is water pollution control.
The total spent in Tennessee is $4.52 million, and Tennesseans paid for this program in taxes $1.9 million.
And let's take a hospital construction, which means so much to especially smaller cities of Tennessee.
The total received in Tennessee was $47.2 million, and Tennesseans for this program paid $16.4 million.
And then others are on down the line as you will see.
As I said before, the average is more than $2 in aid for every dollar in taxes.
This is obviously a great bargain for Tennessee, but it's also beneficial to the rest of the country.
As the economic health of the country depends on the economic health of all of its sections.
Well, I've heard a number of people argue that federal aid to education is vital,
if we were to keep up with the Russians. Well, this is true, but I think that all American children are entitled to a first-rate education,
even if a serious external threat did not exist.
We are about far the richest nation in the world.
We can certainly afford not only a decent education for our children, but an excellent education.
Well, this chart, when you saw it a minute ago, you would notice that there is no mention of several very important programs.
One of these is federal aid to depressed areas of which there are many in Tennessee.
The Congress passed a bill to assess these blighted areas in their redevelopment, but this was unfortunately vetoed.
And you also saw a few minutes ago no mention of a program for medical or hospital care for our agent, our senior citizens.
We all know that this is a much needed program, since a great proportion of our older people have greatly increased medical and hospital expenses,
when they are least able to pay for them.
It is my hope and expectation that some adequate program that will give them some substantial relief may be enacted in the very near future.
There are also a number of going concerns, which are particularly interests to Tennessee,
and which are the subject of constant sniping in Washington.
A good example is the Tennessee Valley Authority, which is done more to revitalize the economy of Tennessee that anything else in the last hundred years, well in our history for that matter.
There are constant attempts by the public power interest, either to chop it apart, or at least to tie its hands.
There are others who would destroy or limit the R.E.A. program, which is so vital to rural Tennessee.
I am quite certain that all of the attempts to destroy these worthwhile projects will ultimately fail.
But in a literal sense, there must be a constant vigilance in both the houses of Congress and among our people who are affected if they are to remain vital and effective for our continued use.
Another subject, which has occupied my time and attention to a great extent, has been the national difficulty and problem of juvenile delinquency.
As chairman of the Senate subcommittee dealing with this problem, we held hearings in various parts of the country.
It was our object to enlist the cooperation of all government agencies, local, state, and federal, and to coordinate their efforts with those of the parents, schools, and the churches.
In a sense, we were engaged in an educational process. But in another sense, we were engaged in a very important legislative process.
We were able to get new laws enacted to tighten up the traffic and the control of narcotics.
We are now working on legislation to strengthen the hands of the post office department and the Department of Justice in their battle against smut and obscenity.
The Senate passed a bill for aid to the states and the training of personnel to combat juvenile delinquency.
We also want to establish forestry camps, which we believe are superior to juvenile homes for many types of delinquents.
Well, as important as these domestic problems may be, I am sure that all of you are aware of the equal seriousness of our international situation.
A permanent peace is something which we are yet to achieve.
Meanwhile, we must keep our country both militarily and economically strong.
One of our greatest sources of strength is the unity of the Atlantic community, especially the cooperation which has been achieved within the NATO and the NATO nations.
As long as the NATO countries stand together, war is unlikely because the communists know that we would win any war that they started.
I have attended many meetings of the NATO parliamentarians who are the legislators from all of the NATO countries.
I have worked for the establishment of the Atlantic Congress, which was held last June, from which we hope to get a more closely knit economic community in this part in this area of the world.
Such a community could more fully share the cost of foreign aid, which we have supported almost alone for many years now.
There are a number of other subjects which I should like to discuss with you, but I have already presumed upon your patience.
Again, let me say how sorry I am not to be with you in person on this occasion, and let me thank you very much for letting me visit with you on this film.
Thank you.